---
title: Oyaraji
description: Capitol city of Yugo Provice
tags:
- cities
mapMarkers:
- group: towns
  pos: 1311.6, 911.9
---

Oyaraji, the capital city of [Yugo Province](/pages/Yugo), stands as a stark
contrast to the quaint, serene life in the smaller towns and villages scattered
throughout the province. Encircled by formidable stone walls that have withstood
both the ravages of time and the tumult of war, Oyaraji serves as the political
heart and the bustling economic hub of the province.

Upon entering through its grand gates, one is immediately swept up by the
vibrancy of the city life. The main thoroughfare is lined with a variety of
shops and stalls, leading to an extensive market known as the Kōshi Market.
Here, traders from across the region and beyond sell exotic spices, fine silks,
precious metals, and a myriad of other goods. The sounds of bargaining, the
rich aromas of street food, and the colorful sights of traditional and foreign
wares create a lively atmosphere that fills the air from sunrise to sunset.

At the center of Oyaraji's southern ward stands the Oyaraji Castle, an imposing
structure of gray stone and wood, accented with steep, curved roofs that
glisten with tiles of blue and green. This castle, currently the residence of
the regent, towers over the city, serving as a constant reminder of the
authority that governs Yugo. The castle is surrounded by manicured gardens and
a secondary inner wall, creating a distinct separation from the rest of the
city.

The presence of the regent and his samurai is strongly felt in Oyaraji. Their
patrols are frequent, and their attitudes often haughty, casting a slight pall
over the city’s vibrancy. The tension between the citizens' pride in their rich
cultural heritage and the oppressive tactics of the current regime is palpable
in the air.

Despite the political undercurrents, Oyaraji remains a cultural beacon in Yugo.
The city is home to several schools of art and combat, where the ancient
traditions of painting, sculpture, and martial training continue to thrive.
Festivals and public celebrations are common, featuring performances of
traditional music and dance that provide a temporary but powerful escape from
the everyday worries.

