---
title: Peoples of the Dragonfly Isles
layout: page
permalink: peoples.html
---

## Agehin (Human)

The _Agehin_ ("settler people") are thought to have arrived on the northwest
island many hundreds of years ago. They now occupy most of the island, as well
as most of the southwestern island and the western reaches of the eastern
island. Most Agehin provinces pay fealty to the Shogun in **Kama**, though
conflicts - and even wars - between them are still not uncommon.

Also of note is the group of provinces on the southwestern island that has
broken away from the Kama Shogunate, and are instead loyal to the High
Priestess in **Yoshima** and her Theocracy.

## Uehin (Halflings)

The _Uehin_ ("small people") people's origin is unknown - they have lived
amongst the Agehin as long as anyone can remember. Some say they were the
original inhabitants of what are now considered the Agehin homelands.

## Inyuhin (Elves)

The _Inyuhin_ ("elven people" or "fae people") people are native to the colder
northern portions of the northwest island, though they have lost a good portion
of that land to the Agehin in modern times.

## Gyahin (Kenku)

The _Gyahin_ ("bird people") people are native to the northwest island's
highlands. They have largely integrated into Agehin culture, though a number of
Gyahin cultural practices have also made their way back into Agehin culture,
especially around their native ranges.

## Ashizuhin (Dragonborn)

The _Ashizuhin_ ("dragon people") people are native to the southwest island. A
proud and strong people, the Ashizuhin are divided on their opinions on
integrating into Agehin society. Some have embraced it, while others stay to
their own lands and resent the outsiders that have encroached on their lands.

## Ueyagehin (Dwarves)

The _Drogrun_, or _Ueyagehin_ ("small island people") in Agehin, are only native
to Drogrun island, off the coast of the eastern island. Like their cousins in
other parts of the world, Ueyagehin culture highly values artisans, and
especially so metalsmiths. Mountains, though, are not often a part of Ueyagehin
life.

## Ganhin (Humans)

The _Mankhan_, or _Ganhin_ ("barbarian people"), as the Agehin call them, are a
separate lineage of humans native to the forests and grasslands in the northern
portions of the eastern island. The Ganhin tend to be larger than their Agehin
counterparts, and their culture is more communal and egalitarian.

## Xāigan (Orcs)

The _Ekh_ - _Xāigan_ ("grey barbarians") to the Agehin - are a people are
native to the south and eastern portions of the eastern island. The one ethnic
group that has not been conquered by the Agehin, the Ekh are large, strong, and
make excellent warriors. They are organized into a large number of clan-based
polities throughout the island. Like the Agehin, they nominally all pay fealty
to a central leasership - the Khagan in **Krigh** - but this does not rule out
conflicts between individual clans.
